In the traditional server-side model that I've followed so far there is a client (a web browser commanded by a user) making HTTP requests to the application server. A request can simply ask for an HTML page, like when you click the "Profile" link, or it can trigger an action, like when you click the Submit button after editing your profile information. In both types of requests the server completes the request by sending a new web page to the client, either directly or by issuing a redirect. The client then replaces the current page with the new one. This cycle repeats for as long as the user stays on the application's web site. In this model the server does all the work, while the client just displays the web pages and accepts user input.

There is a different model in which the client takes a more active role. In this model, the client issues a request to the server and the server responds with a web page, but unlike the previous case, not all the page data is HTML, there is also sections of the page with code, typically written in Javascript. Once the client receives the page it displays the HTML portions, and executes the code. From then on you have an active client that can do work on its own without little or no contact with the server. In a strict client-side application the entire application is downloaded to the client with the initial page request, and then the application runs entirely on the client, only contacting the server to retrieve or store data and making dynamic changes to the appearance of that first and only web page. This type of applications are called Single Page Applications or SPAs.

Most applications are a hybrid between the two models and combine techniques of both. My Microblog application is mostly a server-side application, but today I will be adding a little bit of client-side action to it. To do real time translations of user posts, the client browser will send asynchronous requests to the server, to which the server will respond without causing a page refresh. The client will then insert the translations into the current page dynamically. This technique is known as Ajax, which is short for Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (even though these days XML is often replaced with JSON).