The topics of this chapter are Internationalization and Localization, commonly abbreviated I18n and L10n. To make my application friendly to people who do not speak English, I'm going to implement a translation workflow that, with the help of language translators, will allow me to offer the application to users in a choice of languages.

本章的内容主要是翻译语言。

As you can probably guess, there is a Flask extension that makes working with translations very easy. 

```bash
(venv) $ pip install flask-babel
```

This extension is added to a Flask application in the usual way:

`Location: ./app/__init__.py`

```py
# ...
from flask_babel import Babel

app = Flask(__name__)
# ...
babel = Babel(app)
```

 To keep track of the list of supported languages, I'm going to add a configuration variable:

`Location: ./config.py`
- 全局变量
```py
class Config(object):
    # ...
    LANGUAGES = ['en', 'es']
```

The Babel instance provides a localeselector decorator. The decorated function is invoked for each request to select a language translation to use for that request:

- 设置语言全局变量
`Location: ./app/__init__.py`
```py
from flask import request

# ...

@babel.localeselector
def get_locale():
    return request.accept_languages.best_match(app.config['LANGUAGES'])
```

Here I'm using an attribute of Flask's request object called accept_languages. This object provides a high-level interface to work with the Accept-Language header that clients send with a request. This header specifies the client language and locale preferences as a weighted list. The contents of this header can be configured in the browser's preferences page, with the default being usually imported from the language settings in the computer's operating system. Most people don't even know such a setting exists, but this is useful as users can provide a list of preferred languages, each with a weight. In case you are curious, here is an example of a complex Accept-Languages header:

Accept-Language: da, en-gb;q=0.8, en;q=0.7

This says that Danish (da) is the preferred language (with default weight = 1.0), followed by British English (en-GB) with a 0.8 weight, and as a last option generic English (en) with a 0.7 weight.

To select the best language, you need to compare the list of languages requested by the client against the languages the application supports, and using the client provided weights, find the best language. The logic to do this is somewhat complicated, but it is all encapsulated in the best_match() method, which takes the list of languages offered by the application as an argument and returns the best choice.

```bash
- Marking Texts to Translate In Python Source Code
- 需要对所有需要翻译的源代码进行定位并且翻译

1. flash 类型信息
2. 有动态信息的 flash 语句
3. 表格相关的 label。The only solution to handle those texts is to find a way to delay the evaluation of the string until it is used, which is going to be under an actual request. 
- Here I'm importing this alternative translation function and renaming to to _l() so that it looks similar to the original _(). This new function wraps the text in a special object that triggers the translation to be performed later, when the string is used.

4. flask-login 自带的信息。 The Flask-Login extension flashes a message any time it redirects the user to the login page. This message is in English and comes from the extension itself. To make sure this message also gets translated, I'm going to override the default message and provide my own, wrapper with the _l() function for lazy processing

Here I'm importing this alternative translation function and renaming to to _l() so that it looks similar to the original _(). This new function wraps the text in a special object that triggers the translation to be performed later, when the string is used.

```

- Marking Texts to Translate In Templates

标记并定位翻译完源代码的信息后，下一步就是翻译 template 的信息。
更改并查看所有 templates。

```html
<h1>File Not Found</h1>
<h1>{{ _('File Not Found') }}</h1>
<h1>{{ _('Hi, %(username)s!', username=current_user.username) }}</h1>

_post.html
        {% set user_link %}
            <a href="{{ url_for('user', username=post.author.username) }}">
                {{ post.author.username }}
            </a>
        {% endset %}
        {{ _('%(username)s said %(when)s',
            username=user_link, when=moment(post.timestamp).fromNow()) }}
```

The problem here is that I wanted the username to be a link that points to the profile page of the user, not just the name, so I had to create an intermediate variable called user_link using the set and endset template directives, and then pass that as an argument to the translation function.


- Extracting Text to Translate

- 在标记了 source code 和 template 之后，下一步要做的是将标记好的文件转化成一个新文件，供翻译时对位使用。目的就是一个类似于一个语言版本的字典 template 文件。

1. 新创建一个文件，名 `babel.cfg`
2. 运行 bash 命令

Once you have the application with all the _() and _l() in place, you can use the pybabel command to extract them to a .pot file, which stands for portable object template. This is a text file that includes all the texts that were marked as needing translation. The purpose of this file is to serve as a template to create translation files for each language.

The extraction process needs a small configuration file that tells pybabel what files should be scanned for translatable texts. Below you can see the babel.cfg that I created for this application:

`Location: ./babel.cfg`

```py
[python: app/**.py]
[jinja2: app/templates/**.html]
extensions=jinja2.ext.autoescape,jinja2.ext.with_
```

The first two lines define the filename patterns for Python and Jinja2 template files respectively. The third line defines two extensions provided by the Jinja2 template engine that help Flask-Babel properly parse template files.

To extract all the texts to the .pot file, you can use the following command:

```bash
(venv) $ pybabel extract -F babel.cfg -k _l -o messages.pot .
```

The pybabel extract command reads the configuration file given in the -F option, then scans all the code and template files in the directories that match the configured sources, starting from the directory given in the command (the current directory or . in this case). By default, pybabel will look for _() as a text marker, but I have also used the lazy version, which I imported as _l(), so I need to tell the tool to look for those too with the -k _l. The -o option provides the name of the output file.

I should note that the messages.pot file is not a file that needs to be incorporated into the project. This is a file that can be easily regenerated any time it is needed, simply by running the command above again. So there is no need to commit this file to source control.

- Generating a Language Catalog

1. 运行bash 命令，生成一个西班牙语版本的 message.po 文件
2. 关于 message.po 文件的格式， This messages.po file that created in each language repository uses a format that is the de facto standard for language translations, the format used by the gettext utility.
3. 你可以通过 `editor` 对 .po 文件进行编辑。There are many translation applications that work with .po files.

4. If you feel comfortable editing the text file, then that's sufficient, but if you are working with a large project it may be recommended to work with a specialized editor. The most popular translation application is the open-source poedit, which is available for all major operating systems. If you are familiar with vim, then the po.vim plugin gives some key mappings that make working with these files easier.

5. 目前可以下载的文件有 打了标记的 source code，templates，messages.po, 

6. 如何使用 messages.po 文件？ 这个动作叫做 `complie`。The messages.po file is a sort of source file for translations. When you want to start using these translated texts, this file needs to be compiled into a format that is efficient to be used by the application at run-time.

7. message.po 文件经过 compile 之后生成新文件，叫做 `message.mo`文件。

8. After you create the messages.mo file for Spanish or any other languages you added to the project, these languages are ready to be used in the application.  If you want to see how the application looks in Spanish, you can edit the language configuration in your web browser to have Spanish as the preferred language. 

9. 可以设定默认语言 或者 从 chrome 中设定。Running the application with the browser configured for Spanish, or the localeselector function returning es will make all the texts appear in Spanish when you use the application.

10. 更新现有的 pot 文件

```bash
(venv) $ pybabel extract -F babel.cfg -k _l -o messages.pot .
(venv) $ pybabel update -i messages.pot -d app/translations
```

After the messages.po are updated, you can go ahead and translate any new tests, then compile the messages one more time to make them available to the application.



The pybabel init command takes the messages.pot file as input and writes a new language catalog to the directory given in the -d option for the language specified in the -l option. I'm going to be installing all the translations in the app/translations directory, because that is where Flask-Babel will expect translation files to be by default. The command will create a es subdirectory inside this directory for the Spanish data files. In particular, there will be a new file named app/translations/es/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po, that is where the translations need to be made.

If you want to support other languages, just repeat the above command with each of the language codes you want, so that each language gets its own repository with a messages.po file.

This messages.po file that created in each language repository uses a format that is the de facto standard for language translations, the format used by the gettext utility.

There are many translation applications that work with .po files. If you feel comfortable editing the text file, then that's sufficient, but if you are working with a large project it may be recommended to work with a specialized editor. The most popular translation application is the open-source poedit, which is available for all major operating systems. If you are familiar with vim, then the po.vim plugin gives some key mappings that make working with these files easier.

The messages.po file is a sort of source file for translations. When you want to start using these translated texts, this file needs to be compiled into a format that is efficient to be used by the application at run-time. To compile all the translations for the application, you can use the pybabel compile command as follows:

```bash
(venv) $ pybabel compile -d app/translations
compiling catalog app/translations/es/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po to
app/translations/es/LC_MESSAGES/messages.mo
```

This operation adds a messages.mo file next to messages.po in each language repository. The .mo file is the file that Flask-Babel will use to load translations for the application.

After you create the messages.mo file for Spanish or any other languages you added to the project, these languages are ready to be used in the application. If you want to see how the application looks in Spanish, you can edit the language configuration in your web browser to have Spanish as the preferred language. For Chrome, this is the Advanced part of the Settings page:

If you prefer not to change your browser settings, the other alternative is to force a language by making the localeselector function always return it. For Spanish, this would be how you would do it:

`Location: ./app/__init__.py`

```py
@babel.localeselector
def get_locale():
    # return request.accept_languages.best_match(app.config['LANGUAGES'])
    return 'es'
```

Running the application with the browser configured for Spanish, or the localeselector function returning es will make all the texts appear in Spanish when you use the application.

- Updating the Translations

Another common scenario occurs if you missed some texts when you added the _() wrappers. In this case you are going to see that those texts that you missed are going to remain in English, because Flask-Babel knows nothing about them. In this situation you'll want to add the _() or _l() wrappers when you detect texts that don't have them, and then do an update procedure, which involves two steps:

```bash
(venv) $ pybabel extract -F babel.cfg -k _l -o messages.pot .
(venv) $ pybabel update -i messages.pot -d app/translations
```

The extract command is identical to the one I issued earlier, but now it will generate a new version of messages.pot with all the previous texts plus anything new that you recently wrapped with _() or _l(). The update call takes the new messages.pot file and merges it into all the messages.po files associated with the project. This is going to be an intelligent merge, in which any existing texts will be left alone, while only entries that were added or removed in messages.pot will be affected.

After the messages.po are updated, you can go ahead and translate any new tests, then compile the messages one more time to make them available to the application.

- Translating Dates and Times

Now I have a complete Spanish translation for all the texts in Python code and templates, but if you run the application in Spanish and are a good observer, you will notice that there are still a few things that appear in English. I'm referring to the timestamps generated by Flask-Moment and moment.js, which obviously have not been included in the translation effort because none of the texts generated by these packages are part of the source code or templates of the application.

The moment.js library does support localization and internationalization, so all I need to do is configure the proper language. Flask-Babel returns the selected language and locale for a given request via the get_locale() function, so what I'm going to do is add the locale to the g object, so that I can then access it from the base template:

`Location: ./app/routes.py`

```py
# ...
from flask import g
from flask_babel import get_locale

# ...

@app.before_request
def before_request():
    # ...
    g.locale = str(get_locale())
```

The get_locale() function from Flask-Babel returns a locale object, but I just want to have the language code, which can be obtained by converting the object to a string. Now that I have g.locale, I can access it from the base template to configure moment.js with the correct language:


`Location: ./app/templates/base.html`

```html
...
{% block scripts %}
    {{ super() }}
    {{ moment.include_moment() }}
    {{ moment.lang(g.locale) }}
{% endblock %}
```

And now all dates and times should appear in the same language as the text. 
At this point, all texts except those that were provided by the user in blog posts or profile descriptions should be translatable into other languages.







- Command-Line Enhancements

You will probably agree with me that the pybabel commands are a bit long and difficult to remember. I'm going to use this opportunity to show you how you can create custom commands that are integrated with the flask command. So far, you've seen me use flask run, flask shell, and several flask db sub-commands provided by the Flask-Migrate extension. It is actually easy to add application-specific commands to flask as well. So what I'm going to do now is create a few simple commands that trigger the pybabel commands with all the arguments that are specific to this application.

flask translate init LANG to add a new language
flask translate update to update all language repositories
flask translate compile to compile all language repositories

The babel extract step is not going to be a command, because generating the messages.pot file is always a pre-requisite to running either the init or the update commands, so the implementation of these commands will generate the translation template file as a temporary file.

Flask relies on Click for all its command-line operations. Commands like translate, which are a root for several sub-commands are created via the app.cli.group() decorator. I'm going to put these commands in a new module called app/cli.py:

`Location: ./app/cli.py`

```py
from app import app

@app.cli.group()
def translate():
    """Translation and localization commands."""
    pass
```

The name of the command comes from the name of the decorated function, and the help message comes from the docstring. Since this is a parent command that only exists to provide a base for the sub-commands, the function itself does not need to do anything.

`Location: ./app/cli.py`

```py
import os

# ...

@translate.command()
def update():
    """Update all languages."""
    if os.system('pybabel extract -F babel.cfg -k _l -o messages.pot .'):
        raise RuntimeError('extract command failed')
    if os.system('pybabel update -i messages.pot -d app/translations'):
        raise RuntimeError('update command failed')
    os.remove('messages.pot')

@translate.command()
def compile():
    """Compile all languages."""
    if os.system('pybabel compile -d app/translations'):
        raise RuntimeError('compile command failed')
```

You can see that for all commands, I run them and make sure that the return value is zero, which implies that the command did not return any error. If the command errors, then I raise a RuntimeError, which will cause the script to stop. The update() function combines the extract and update steps in the same command, and if everything is successful, it deletes the messages.pot file after the update is complete, since this file can be easily regenerated when needed again.

`Location: ./app/cli.py`

```py
import click

@translate.command()
@click.argument('lang')
def init(lang):
    """Initialize a new language."""
    if os.system('pybabel extract -F babel.cfg -k _l -o messages.pot .'):
        raise RuntimeError('extract command failed')
    if os.system(
            'pybabel init -i messages.pot -d app/translations -l ' + lang):
        raise RuntimeError('init command failed')
    os.remove('messages.pot')
```

This command uses the @click.argument decorator to define the language code. Click passes the value provided in the command to the handler function as an argument, and then I incorporate the argument into the init command.

The final step to enable these commands to work is to import them, so that the commands get registered. I decided to do this in the microblog.py file in the top-level directory:

`Location: ./microblog.py`

```py
from app import cli
```

At this point, running flask --help will list the translate command as an option. And flask translate --help will show the three sub-commands that I defined:

```bash
(venv) $ flask translate --help
Usage: flask translate [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

  Translation and localization commands.

Options:
  --help  Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  compile  Compile all languages.
  init     Initialize a new language.
  update   Update all languages.
```

So now, the workflow is much simpler and there is no need to remember long and complicated commands. To add a new language, you use:

```bash
(venv) $ flask translate init <language-code>
```

To update all the languages after making changes to the _() and _l() language markers:

```bash
(venv) $ flask translate update
```

And to compile all languages after updating the translation files:

```bash
(venv) $ flask translate compile
```